Project for nanodegree
Packages used for modelling:
  pandas: used to organize data into dataframes for data cleaning and to calculate correlations
  matplotlib.pyplot: used to plot data for some simple visualization
  sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression: used to calculate linear regressions 
  sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split: used to split data into train and test
  sklearn.metrics import r2_score: used to calculate the R squared
  scipy.stats: used to calculate t-tests to compare means between cities
  
  Business Questions to be answered
  The following investigation investigates factors that could be used in the pricing of properties. Pricing in AirBnbs is an 
  important topic as AirBnbs are often used either for short term cheap housing or as a cheaper alternative than a hotel.
  Having more awareness about how properties are priced and general pricing trends in cities will allow for future properties to
  be appropriately priced but also allow for cities to be marketed to the appropriate clientelle. The following three questions
  will be investigated:
  1. Do ratings influence price in Seatle and Boston? Are more highly rated properties more expensive? Do owners increase their prices after
  having received high ratings from guests?
    This question is to be investigated because logic would suggest that a more highly rated property would be more likely to 
    be chosen and hosts could increase the price and still have guests as people are more likely to select higher properties
    with higher ratings.
  2. Do number of bedrooms, bathrooms, or number of guests that a property can accommodate influence price in Boston 
  or Seatle? It is assumed that the size of a property would effect its price, can the data be used to corroborate 
  this?
    A further factor that would logically lead to an increase in price would be increased number of rooms, or number of guests
    a property can accommodate would influence price. Naturally the more guests a property can accommodate comfortably the
    larger this property would be and therefore more expensive. Also factors like number of bedrooms and number of bathrooms
    would influence how comfortably a larger number of guests a property could accommodate and therefore also increase the price.
  3. Overall do Seatle and Boston differ in prices? Is a certain city more expensive in general? Should either city
  be marketed to different clientelle?
    Looking into the difference in prices will allow us to understand whether either city has a tendency to be more expensive 
    and use this to influence what kind of guests each city is marketed to as certain guests will be more able to pay higher
    prices than others.
    
Initial investigation of the data
The first steps are too look at the data and what possible columns could be used to answer the questions we've asked.
Since all the questions we've asked are regarding price, the price columns were selected. Looking at the number of
nulls in monthly_price and weekly_price suggests that these columns would just limit the number of rows we could actually use
in our investigation so the those rows will be dropped and just use the price column (imputating null values does not make sense
in this case due to the high volume of nulls and reliance of price on other factors that would complicate accurate imputation). 
The price column also will further cleansing as there are characters (including, and $) that will need to be removed in order
to assign the appropriate datatype. Further columns will be question specific.

Question 1: Looking through the list of columns need to include all columns that are related directly to ratings, which includes
an overall rating value and 6 sub-ratings, and the price column. All these are rated on a 1-10 basis making further analysis simple and not requiring
the need to work with categorical data. The few number of nulls mean that columns with nulls can just be dropped as there
is plenty of data remaining after this occurs and limits the effect that imputing data could have on the accuracy of our results

Question 2: Once again similar to question 1 the necessary columns need to be selected out which include any columns related to
bedrooms, number of guests a property can accommodate, number of bathrooms, and price. Number bedrooms and bathrooms are included
because while the overall number or guests a property can accommodate gives a rough estimate of size the number of bedrooms and
bathrooms influence how comfortably each of these accommodated guests can stay in a property (each guest would have more space
and fewer people to share a bathroom) and would intuitively increase the price of the property. Again due to the low number of 
nulls these rows were dropped from further analysis.

Question 3: For the final question few columns are required mainly the cleaned up price column from each location and the 
accommodates columns. The accommodates column is included as in order to do further investigation between the cities properties
between properties that are or similar sizes and can accommodate similar number of guests. 

Modeling

For Questions 1 and 2 a similar modeling approach will be taken. Initially descriptive statistics will be looked at to get a
general overview of the data prior to correlating the ratings or rooms. Following this linear regressions will be used to see
if either ratings or rooms can be used to predict the price. The effectiveness of these models will be judged on their R squared
values.

For Question 3 a different approach will be taken where the means of each group (Boston and Seatle) are statistically compared 
using independent groups T-test first as a whole and then in different groupings based on the number of guests a property can 
accommodate. 

Results

Question 1:
Pearson Correlation between price and ratings: Seatle
Looking at the correlations between price and ratings it seems that there is little relationship between price and ratings,
however there were some higher correlations between the subcategories of ratings suggesting that certain components of the
ratings could influence other rating scores. The subrating most strongly correlated to the overall rating is value suggesting
that there is a possibility that value for money influences how a property is rated more than the other subcategories.

Linear Regression of price and ratings: Seatle
The R squared value returned when investigating whether ratings could be used to predict price is very low (0.014350710890825957)
suggesting that ratings cannot be used to predict the price of a property.

Pearson Correlation between price and ratings: Boston
Looking at the correlations between price and ratings it seems that there is also little relationship between price and ratings,
however they are slightly higher than in Seatle. Again like in Seatle, there are some stronger correlations between ratings and
subratings categories with accuracy, cleanliness, and value all showing correlations above 0.7. This suggests that these 3
categories influence the overall property rating more than the other subcategories.

Linear Regression of price and ratings: Boston
The R squared value returned when investigating whether ratings could be used to predict price is also very low in Boston
(0.07960652680184144) suggesting that ratings cannot be used to predict the price of a property.

Question 2:
Pearson Correlation between price and rooms: Seatle
Looking at the correlations between price and rooms it seems that there is a bit of relationship between price and rooms, while
it is isn't strong it is clearly higher than the general correlation between price and ratings. The highest correlation concerning
price is between price and accommodates. The highest correlation is between bedrooms and number of guests accommodated. This is
to be expected as the more bedrooms the more guests a property can accommodate. 

Linear Regression of price and rooms: Seatle
The R squared value returned when investigating whether rooms could be used to predict price is higher than those concerning 
price and ratings (0.4843539870914997) suggesting that rooms are more effective to predict price than ratings. However the 
value is still not very high suggesting that there are other factors that can better predict pricing of properties.

Pearson Correlation between price and rooms: Boston
Looking at the correlations between price and rooms in Boston the correlations are generally lower than in Seatle. While they
are higher than the correlation between price and ratings they are still all below 0.5 except for the correlation between
guests accommodated and bedrooms which is a logical correlation. This suggests that number of rooms or guests accommodated
is less related to price than in Seatle.

Linear Regression of price and rooms: Boston
The R squared value returned between price and rooms rooms is lower than its equivalent in Seatle (0.26678473538724456)
suggesting number of rooms is a worse predictor of price in Boston than in Seatle. It is however higher than the R square value
found when using ratings to predict price. The R squared is however still quite low suggesting that other factors would be
better predictors of price than number of rooms.

Question 3
The third question investigates pricing between the two cities. Looking at the descriptive statistics we can see that Boston
on average has higher prices than Seatle. The independent groups t-tests support this with a very low p value (2.80437e-56)
showing that even at very stringent bounds of significance the groups have statistically different means. Further investigation
was done concerning the difference in prices in the cities in different sizes of properties, as defined by number of guests a 
property can house. The descriptive stats show that both cities have the most properties that are able to house between 2-5 
guests and that mean prices do increase with increased property size. Boston, however, had one property in the 2-5 guest size
range that had a very price (4000$). Such a strong outliar could influence the results and should be kept in mind when interpreting
the results. Looking at the results of the independent samples t-tests the difference in means holds with very low p values
for 1 guest accommodations (4.28051e-07), 2-5 guest accommodations (1.25995e-88), and 5-10 guest accommodations (2.26613e-10). 
While these p values suggest a robust significance in means, it cannot be forgotten that sample size between the groups are not
always equal and this could have implications in the validity of our results. Overall it can be said that Boston has more expensive
AirBnBs than Seatle.

Evaluation
Question 1
The results noted regarding our first question give us some interesting insights. The first insight we can gain from these results
is that ratings do not seem to predict price at all. This says that ratings do not influence pricing in either city and having
a more highly rated property does not make it more expensive for guests to stay. However looking at the correlation results for both
cities suggests that certain subratings are more related to the overall rating other than ratings. For example the value subrating
is relatively highly correlated to overall rating, suggesting that focusing on certain factors of a guests experience could have
a higher influence on the overall rating a guests give. However further investigation is required to have a proper understanding
about whether this relationship is statistically valid. 

Question 2
The results regarding our second question begin to show a divide between the two cities, Boston and Seatle. For both cities the 
results show that number of bedrooms, bathrooms, and guests a property can accommodate are more highly correlated and more able
to predict price than ratings. However while this trend is still relatively small in Boston, it is higher in Seatle. The R squared
is just below 0.5 for Seatle, showing the the number of rooms are able to predict about 50% of the variance in the data, which 
mean it has a noteable influence on the price of a property. The R squared is much lower in Boston suggesting that these factors
have less of an influence on price of AirBnBs in Boston and that other factors influence price more.

The results found answering the two first questions suggest that further analysis would be required to understand pricing in
both cities. 

Question 3
The results regarding our third question clearly show that Boston is a more expensive city to rent an AirBnB in. This increase in
price is consistent between all property sizes. This suggeststhat Boston as a city should be marketed to more a clientelle 
that is able to afford these rates. The average increased prize and lack of predictive power of ratings and rooms on price in
Boston could suggest that a possible further investigation concerning the luxury AirBnBs could yield some explanation about
what influences pricing of properties in Boston.
